you might well be wondering what this is
it's actually an artichoke which you
probably eat in the heart of it maybe on
some pizza they're also very good in
salads and pastas and it looks slightly
odd it's actually related to the Thistle
family and it takes a little bit of time
to prepare but it is worth the effort
what you need to do is just strip off
the tough outer leaves now I've got a
big pile of lemons next to me and I've
done that for a reason because as you
take the leaves off what you need to do
is rub around it with lemon juice if you
don't do that it'll end up going brown
and nasty and discoloring so it does
oxidize you do need to keep a bit of an
eye on that you can also just keep
dipping it into a bowl of cold water
with some lemon juice in it so keep
taking these off like this you don't
actually have to take the leaves off you
do if you don't want one of the classic
French ways of preparing this is just to
trim the stem off and then pop it whole
into some boiling water cook about 40
minutes or so and then what you do is
just strip off each leaf dip it into
some hollandaise or melted butter and
then with your teeth just take off the
fleshy bit and discard the rest of the
leaf but the best bit is the heart and
that's what we're trying to get to today
so I've done that just going to cut the
stem off because again that is quite
tough pop that off I know what you want
to do is just cut through the least
about you want to take off about five
centimeters or so quite a nice sharp
knife just like so and then all you have
to do is take a small knife take those
tough leaves off and what you'll do is
get to that lovely white bit inside
takes a little bit of time to do that so
what I've done is actually got one
earlier so you can see I've taken off
all the leaves it's lovely and smooth
and it's just pale yellow now there's
one other thing you have to do and that
is the choke and what that is it's very
similar to a thistle and you can't eat
it it'll stick in your throat we very
unpleasant but it's very easy to get rid
of we just get a small teaspoon like
this and just scrape away at this and it
scoops out there we go coming out like
this and then you just want to discard
that
into a small bowl like so you need to
make sure all of that comes off because
you really don't want to be eating that
so really dig into it and again if
you're eating it whole you don't want to
eat that so you take that out before
using it so there we go nearly don't now
that's all done and what you're left
with now is the artichoke heart I'm just
going to rub a bit more lemon on that
now that's that's what people normally
think of as the best bit of the
artichoke there's a couple of ways of
cooking it you can braise it and it's
also rather nice just popped on a
barbecue it's very summery vegetable
it's lovely way of eating it but again
what the French normally do they like to
just gently simmer it again you need to
have a pan of water put some lemon in it
because you don't want it to brown then
pop it in the pan you don't really want
it to stick out too much so if you've
got a small saucer you can pop that on
the pan perhaps a colander just to weigh
it down and then you want to cook it for
about 20 to 40 minutes just until it's
soft if you want to cook in a bit
quicker you can always cut it into
quarters and then I like to serve it
packs on a salad or perhaps with a
lovely buttery sauce take it outside
into the garden and there you go your
artichoke to enjoy to eat